# CS-340-Client-Server-Development

**How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?**

> I write maintainable, readable, and adaptable code by ensuring that my code is expressive, there is a good balance of comments, and method functionality is limited to sole roles.  This allows the code to be modularized and adapted easily. When I designed the CRUD Python module to handle the movement of data between the database and the client, I created a single method for each of the CRUD operations (**C**reate, **R**ead, **U**pdate, and **D**elete), which allowed each method to be easily readable, easy to maintain, and adaptable. This CRUD Python module could be used as the foundation to help build most other middle man data handlers.

**How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?**

> As a computer scientist, I try to understand the big picture first, and then I dial down on the details. I approached the Grazioso Salvare requirements by translating the requested database and dashboard into a plan that accounted for data traffic, the CRUD methodology, and a simple and easy to use API. Once this plan was in place, I could dial in and focus on what it would take to build each part of the system, all while never losing sight of the end goal and the customer requirements. I was able to do this due to being held on track by the well written plans I made in the beginning.

**What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?**

> Computer scientists have a plethora of responsibilities, but, to boil it down into a few words, we design, build, modify, maintain, and update software to meet or exceed the demands of the customer in an efficient and reliable manner. The work that I did on the Grazioso Salvare project will be greatly helpful in a similar company because I now understand and have the capability to build an application from end to end. This would aid a similar company in any venture that required a full-stack application.
